# A* lab

## Testing it out
An example implementation that solves the 8-puzzle and provides a nice interface for exploring the solution is provided.
The compiled javascript files are included in the repository, so just start AstarLab.html (tested in chrome).
After selecting a board size a new board is generated by clicking "randomize". Clicking "Plan" then runs the A* algorithm with the given heuristic and tries to find a solution (for boards larger than 3x3 this will usually run out of memory and fail). When a solution has been found the total number of steps required to solve the puzzles is displayed along with how many nodes where explored in order to find a solution and the time it took. The slider or the arrows on either side of the slider can then be used to step through the solution.

## Important files

### Astar.ts
This file contains the implementation of the A* algorithm.
The implementation uses generic Node and Path interfaces where Paths contain lists of Nodes as well as the accumulated costs of the Nodes, and Nodes provide the function Neighbours that returns a list of Neighbours. Neighbours are Nodes with associated costs. 

When utilizing the Astar function the above objects must be implemented as well as both the GoalFunction, which given a Node returns true if it is the goal Node and false otherwise, and the HeuristicFunction which takes two nodes and returns their distance according to some heuristic.

### AstarLab.ts
This file is an example implementation that implements Astar to solve the 8-puzzle. Here nodes are Boards that contain the position of all the tiles and two different heuristics have been implemented: "Total Manhattan Distance" and "Number of Bricks out of Place".

### AstarLab.html
This file provides the User Interface for running the 8-puzzle solver and navigating the solution. It is driven by the code in AstarLabApp.js

### AstarLabApp.js
This file is the runner for the 8-puzzle. It creates a randomized board of variable width (default is 3x3) and can run the step by step navigation of a solution in the UI if a solution is found.

### tests/Astar.ts
The unit tests for the A* implementation.

## Heuristics

### None
No heuristic is used. Usually crashes the browser.

### Number of bricks out of place
The number of bricks that are not in their target square.

### Manhattan distance
Sum of the manhattan distance for each square. The manhattan distance of a square is the number of squares that it would have to move to get to its goal position given that no square can move diagonally.